We're off as dark modes.
Just have a quick look at the various bits that I'm talking about.
On the right hand side we've got the widgetry, that's what I'm talking about mostly.
And then around the document, the application background and the document colors and calling
them application colors and I'm calling the rest widgetry.
That's a screenshot of dark mode, GNOME, our GTK version.
Just overview, most cases what we have is the issue that you have to inform the platform
that your application is up to get into dark mode.
You have to determine the application colors, the ones that you're going to use for a document
background and all the rest have to be extracted from the theme somehow.
We have custom widgets in various places.
They all need to know the appropriate colors to use foreground and background.
The most common obvious problem is that most things have been light mode so far.
People have just decided to draw with a random color and they know that the background is
light and it has worked for them until now perfectly fine.
Now they have to explicitly set the background.
So if you're a developer here and you're doing previews, you're doing any custom widgets,
just make sure you're setting both colors, foreground and background colors together,
not just foreground and the assumption that your background is suitable because it won't
be anymore and it isn't.
Conversion adjudicated dark mode, there's two different modes of doing things.
In GTK we're using actual native GTK widgets.
On the other platform we're using our VCL widgets and we themed them to look like the
actual platform widgets but they're not the platform widgets, they're VCL widgets but
the GTK case, they actually are GTK widgets which means that GTK conversion to dark mode
is pretty easy.
We just listen to the dark mode change on the platform on GNOME.
We find out what is dark mode and we tell GTK that we want GTK to be in dark mode and
then all the GTK widget looks after itself so all of that stuff just draws itself in
dark mode automatically, we have nothing to worry about.
All we have to do then is extract the colors from the team, tell our custom widgets for
colors and foregrounds and backgrounds we want and use the application colors then and
the appropriate locations.
That's all okay because in the case of GTK any of the stuff we were using to query for
theme colors continues to work in dark mode so if we ask for the application background
and we put GTK into dark mode and we ask it for an application background we get something
that we can use straight away which would seem obvious but it's not what's happening
on the other platforms and that's where things get quite difficult.
Mac OS is medium difficulty.
When you opt in by telling Mac OS that you're dark mode enabled and then you query the Mac
OS teams for colors you get results back that are meaningful as long as you stick to the
non-deprecated ones.
Some of the cases for Mac we were not querying the team for background colors, we were just
using hair-coded colors so if we update things pretty much to query what we should be using
for the application background color and so forth and so on we get something meaningful
in dark mode as well and it's all easy for those cases.
For the widget tree though things become more difficult.
On Mac what we have been doing is clicking harder.
Mac there is a drawing interface we've been using all these years to draw onto our VCL
widgets what the Mac button should look like.
Those API's there.
If you go Google for the API you'll find no documentation for them.
There seems to be no acknowledgment on any of the Apple documentation pages that this
API even exists or ever exists and the problem is that even in dark mode it draws in light
mode so any of the stuff we were using on Mac to draw things will only draw light mode
so it's all out of date and it's all not supported.
The problem there is we have to roll forward to something that is working and there's a
whole set of other API's on Mac that we can use but we actually basically use the real
Mac widgets.
We keep a few of them cached and we ask the real Mac widgets to render themselves onto
our VCL widgets with blank text so that we get what it looks like.
On Mac some of the things such as buttons will only render in fixed sizes so if we have
a VCL widget that's big and you want to render a Mac button onto it, it will only render
a small slice of it so you have to make sure that your buttons are the right size or you
have to change Mac buttons into one of the other supported styles which will render into
whatever random space you give it but some modes you can't.
So it's very tricky.
Some of these Mac widgets if you actually try and create them in a thread that they
abort so you have to actually create them in your main thread and keep them for when
you do want to draw on a thread later on.
You can make it work.
We're doing things much more at a distance when we're running with the full Mac widgets.
We can't render a small part of a scroll bar.
You've got to render the scroll bar basically so we have to work with things a bit more
difficult than we did in the past.
So it means that our work for tabpains and scroll bars are particularly complicated.
We've got these focus rings, our focus rings, even though we attempt to draw them the way
the documentation is just to draw them, they're narrower than they should be so they're not
as prominent as I'd like them to be.
There's again this draw focus ring mask with frame which is supposedly supposed to draw
these things but when I try it with different widgets it works with some, it doesn't work
with others.
There's a lot of trial and error with a lot of this stuff.
This feature for wallpaper tinting where one thing behind the other shows up, I never got
it to work.
The accent colors work out of the box.
So let's go shoot, shoot, shoot at that.
Mac it all works fine so that's what it looks like now using the new APIs, accent color
in my case is ready to just pick one, application colors blah blah blah.
It all works fine.
The changing of all the drawing stuff means that the light mode has changed as well, hopefully
for the better, hopefully, but it has made an effect there.
Windows then has the highest difficulty opting in that you want to tell Windows that you
are a dark mode application.
Any of the stuff that we've been using all this time over the last 20 plus years, all
those APIs, there isn't an obvious way that Windows has given us to support dark mode.
And if you actually use Windows in dark mode and you launch the file dialogue you'll see
that it's all the old widgets but it is using dark mode.
File Explorer moves in dark mode as well.
So they do it for their own.
There's various ways of hacking this and the documented stuff we pulled out of that URL
and the other projects blah blah blah are all doing it.
So there's a whole hecky way of doing this that is all based on undocumented ordinance
which is very unsatisfactory and fragile.
That's what we're doing.
These are the API we're using there.
Unlike the Mac case, the APIs still work and they will give you dark mode but only for
certain things.
In other words, only if you pretend to be the two things that we've shown in the previous
style.
If you pretend to be Explorer or the CFD common file dialogue, then you render in dark mode
but only for certain widgets, the ones that exist in those two applications.
So you have to basically restrict yourself to what palettes of widgets are available
in the two cases which is fine.
Scorebars are fine but you have to hack them in like that.
It's very unsatisfactory but it does function.
Unlike Mac, if you use the case for asking query for specific colors, you get back to
light mode colors if you use the existing APIs.
You have to update that and again, you're limited to the widgets that are listed earlier
so you have to get set the explorer theme or set the CFD team and then query for what
you know exists.
The big lack is that there is no tab pane or notebook or tab pane available in any of
those applications.
So in those cases, we're falling back to basically being a button which is why we have some
complexities around that.
Dark mode, Windows 1, that's what it looks like and in Windows final stuff, there's other
stuff which is not dark mode which is even more complicated when it comes to the accessibility
high contrast mode.
So if anybody knows anything about that, last section knows about accessibility, let me
know at some stage and we'll figure it out.
So if you've got complexities, that's why it's done the way it is.
That's the end.
Thank you.